Negative Gearing Ad Campaign
Script - Draft 1

Note: All numbers to be fact checked prior to production.


Open with black screen. Music, with a feeling of gravitas, slowly increases in volume over the whole of the duration of the ad. Fade to image of a high angle shot panning across suburban houses.

                        Nearly 7 million of Australian households have a mortgage

                        Of these 29% are houses whose owners do not live in them

Second shot of Australian housing showing closer images of a number of houses creating a sense of uncovering the truth.

                        Most are rented out and negatively geared by investors to reduce their tax

                        They also benefit from the fifty per cent capital gains tax (CGT) discount

                        Negative gearing plus the CGT discount costs the taxpayer $11 billion every year.

Image of shadowy figure in front of a marina demonstrating wealth.

                        Most of these tax benefits go to the well off.

                        The top 10% of income earners receive 70% of the benefits.

                        These are people on more than $90,000 a year

Woman with young children in front of house that is a bit run down. Image portrays a sense of day-to-day struggle.

                        Negative gearing increases the cost of houses by X% and makes it harder for first home buyers

                        If we limit negative gearing and reduce the CGT discount Australian taxpayers will save over $5 billion a year

                        Experience has shown that rents will not increase even thought the industry claims they will

Australian street with shops and people on a busy weekend. Image to portray a sense that we are all in this together working towards a better place.

                        Grattan’s proposal is to

                        Reduce the CGT discount to 25%

                        Not to allow people to avoid tax on their wages through negative gearing

                        Saving taxpayers $5 billion a year

Fade to black then fade to Grattan logo with copyright claim. Then fade to Grattan web address.


